[Music]
Excuse me, ma'am, in today's program,
there are some questions that have been
officially submitted online,
specifically through Facebook pages.  Yes,
I would like to
address the questions from my classmates to you, teacher.
The first question is from
your Facebook username, Linh Linh.   Excuse me,
teacher, I heard an
English song called Glomy Sunday, which means "
gloomy Sunday."  This song is
known as the "Song of Death" because
many people have committed suicide after listening to
it.  The songwriter himself
committed suicide some time later.
Excuse me, teacher, after listening to this song,
I haven't fallen into depression or
suicidal thoughts, but I feel very uneasy and have
chills running down my spine all the time.  Even though
I'm normally a very
healthy and brave person, after listening to the
song, I felt like there were ghosts standing around
me.
Yes.  I was very scared, and I vowed to
perform meritorious deeds and dedicate the merit to all the
departed souls who have the karmic affinity to be with me.
After making the vow, the child felt better.  Excuse me, ma'am,
regarding this song, I would like to briefly explain the
process. After receiving the question,
we did some research on the
internet and learned about the
song's influence through some specific examples,
such as in Budapest, where he was
sipping Sampank while enjoying the
music.  The music ended, he
paid, left the bar, and hailed a
taxi.  Those were also the final moments
of his life.  As soon as he got into
the car, he pulled out a gun and
ended his own life with a fatal gunshot wound
.
Yes, regarding the second example, it's about
a young salesgirl who hanged herself
in Berlin.  A few days later, when
her body was discovered, a
sheet of music was found at her feet.   A
gloomy Sunday.  And a
third case, as we learned,
involved a beautiful secretary in New
York who also committed suicide by gas poisoning in
her apartment.  And at the scene,
they found a small piece of paper containing
her last wish: to
play the melancholic Sunday song
at her funeral.
And
the craze for the song peaked in
1936,
despite the ban.  Copies of
this song were sold everywhere on the streets of
Paris.  The rumors made many
bands and singers afraid to sing
this deadly song.  And the author of the song
later ended his own life
with a rope in
1968. This is why the program had
previously prepared a song based on this.  Please, ladies
and gentlemen, do not enjoy.
This is a foreign song, but
the presenter has already translated it into Vietnamese,
ma'am and everyone.  And I'm sending
this to you, teacher, so that no one
dies after listening to this.
Yes, please rest assured that we
are sitting in a temple, so there's
no need to worry about the influence of these songs
.  Even though today is Sunday.
Your question was submitted after you submitted your
question to the program.  I will read
each question individually; there are three of them.  The first sentence
describes the circumstances surrounding the song's creation: a
gloomy,
rainy, and cold Sunday afternoon.  A melody suddenly
popped into the musician's head, and half
an hour later, the song "
Gloomy Sunday" was finished.  So
what circumstances led this musician to
compose that song?
Yes, ma'am, please answer.  Well,
ladies and gentlemen, before answering
Linh Ninh's question, I
also have some feelings about the
melody of the song.
As for her, she felt that even though she
didn't know a single word of English, she
didn't know any English at all.  Because
she studied Russian in the past, she
doesn't know a single word of English.  But
the melody of this song goes
straight to my heart.
Every person has their own unique music playing in their heart
.  It's not just
musicians who can create music.  For example,
when we're happy, don't our limbs feel
light and we want to jump
?
That's because we have a joyful melody in our hearts
.  This music is a manifestation of the mind,
and within our own minds, we also have
sad music.
There is a sad melody within our hearts
.  For those of you who have experienced
heartbreak, the biggest problem is that
people become withdrawn and
silent, right?  Heavy margins.  My mind
is completely incapable of thinking about anything.  It only
lives in the past.  It came back to life
through words of love.
Live on the loving words
we shared just moments ago.
And often those moments are
moments when we remember the person we were with,
and we were with them.  I have given
and received.  People gave and received.  Is that correct
?
I live entirely in that moment,
never in the
present moment.  So now she'll just say it's
the musical score, okay?  She only mentioned the melody,
not the meaning of the song.
Just now, she listened to this; her friend gave her the
Vietnamese version.
She asked for permission because she felt from the bottom of her heart that
when that musical note arose, she could
express the melody as it resonated within her heart,
without being constrained by external factors.   On a
gloomy Sunday
[Applause]
it naturally stirred up a
hidden feeling in my heart.  Do you see
?
I lay awake all night.
Is that exactly how someone who's heartbroken feels
?   I couldn't sleep at all
.  The melody
goes very high.  I am very eager.  The
word "sữa" (meaning "throughout") sounds very melodious.  Throughout the
night,
right?   It's a
direct hit, meaning it arises in
my mind in that way.
Once the initial thought has been formed, one then proceeds to
enter the realm below this mental state.
You hid your love for
me, living in the darkness of godlessness, did
n't you?  That is, taking
my previous state of mind, which had given rise to feelings of
sadness and depression, and now bringing myself back
into that state of mental gloom
.  So she analyzed everything to show the students
why their current mood is that they have
completely become the main character
in this song.  If I hadn't experienced
heartbreak, I wouldn't have been included in this.
But if you've experienced heartbreak in the past,
it's just a psychological factor, guys
.
Because within our hearts, there are both
joys and sorrows.  So, when you
hear other people crying because their parents have died, but
your parents have never died,
would you cry if you went there?   I
cried.  Is it okay to shed tears in front of someone
who is desperately mourning the death of their father or mother
?  I was touched too.  So what
moved me?  It's because in a previous
life I also lost
my parents, and I also loved and
cried like that.  Therefore, the seed of hope
in the heart remains dormant within.
It was only brought up when faced with the current situation
.  See that, everyone?  There you go.
Those delicate little white petals will
never awaken him.  That means
this person has already experienced heartbreak, and no matter how much
you say
to the other person
, they won't accept it; you can't awaken
their heart.  You all
know that she was dumped by her boyfriend.  No matter
what I say, my boyfriend wo
n't accept it anymore, right
?  No matter how much I say "I love you" or "
you love me," how much I dedicate my whole life,
how much I apologize, the other person still
won't accept me, right?
Therefore, when the song started, the line that those
pretty little flower petals would never
wake him up hit the nail on the head
.  Is that correct?  Never able to wake up
.  They taught that the
dark night of sorrow shouldn't
take him away.  This part,
this section, the music here, it creates
a feeling, like something is
floating or adrift.  When she heard that line and it
matched the lyrics, she could only
sense the melody, which meant
this person was very adrift.  I feel like something is
adrift in my mind.  There
was nothing to hold onto.  Okay,
now I'll just explain this: when
you're in a situation where no
one is there to save you, the sounds you make start to be like "
oh oh oh oh," right?
That's the song section.  That's the feeling she gets—that at
this moment, a sense of uncertainty arises in her heart
.   That's a feeling of being
lost and alone, you know.   And
then the angels continued to
have no intention of sending him back.  That is to say,
in the case of someone who is heartbroken,
there is no hope
that the other person will ever come back to
them.  Is that the posture of someone who's
heartbroken?  There was not the
slightest glimmer, the slightest hope, the slightest
sign that the person who abandoned me would
return.
This song really captures the feelings of someone who's
truly heartbroken.  That's what it's really like to be
heartbroken.  Would they be angry
if I thought about being close to him?
This is the truth, this person feels it
.  The truth is, even if I get close to
my ex,
that new boyfriend...  For example,
when breaking up, you might say, "Don't
bother me anymore," right?  I have a
lecture to give.  Please stop bothering me.
Don't disturb.  Don't let
your girlfriend be sad, okay?
Or, you shouldn't let your girlfriend
be sad.  Please don't put us in this
awkward situation again.  That's how it will evoke
those emotions that correspond to
this song.  This song perfectly captures all the
sadness that someone experiencing heartbreak goes
through, right?  All of them.  And
now comes the decisive moment that leads
to the death of that heartbroken person
.  That's the
gloomy Sunday part.  A gloomy Sunday means
that everything up there is completely
disappointing.  From
my own sad feelings, okay?  No matter how many times I share
my thoughts, they never respond
.  If I try to get close to
them, I'll be bothering them and
making their new partner sad.
Is that really so dark?  In other words,
it truly puts me in a
deadlock, a complete deadlock, with absolutely no way
out.  But if I
listen to it two or three times, will it really help me
recover?  Completely
collapsed.  But this actually opens up
a new path for this heartbroken person
.  The path to opening is very painful.
With darkness surrounding me, my heart and
I decided to give up.
So, is this about making a decision for
the person who is suffering?
Once again, it leads people to make the
painful decision to give
up everything—to give up on their old love, to
give up on their lives, to give up on
all their good intentions regarding their
responsibilities to their father and
mother.
They will let go of all the worldly affections, wo
n't they, my dear children?
Because this song is very melodious,
but slow enough to allow sufficient
time for it to fully sink into you.  Listen
, feel, and think.
She listened to that song for long enough for
people to fully absorb its lyrics
and be inspired to listen in that way.
Soon there will be flowers and
prayers that urge one to
die.
I know.  Please don't let those things bother you
.  Let those things know
that I departed in peace.  Wouldn't that be like
sending myself to my death?  He saw
only one way out for himself:
death.  Death is not a dream.  Because in
death I will comfort you.  So, from the
heartbreak of wanting to be with the one you love,
a path has now opened up: when you
die, you will be reunited with the one you
love.  So, have you decided to end
your own life yet?
Because when you've experienced heartbreak, you want to be
with your loved one at all costs
.  Isn't that right,
everyone?  Then it opens up a path for me
so that if I die, I will be
by that person's side.  But being there isn't just
ordinary; it's there to comfort,
to love.  So I'll find
that road right away.  With my last breath
, I will bless you.   A
gloomy, dreamy Sunday.  I'm just
daydreaming.  I woke up and I saw you.
In other words, this death is just like
a dream.  But when we
wake up, we're right there beside
our loved one.
He's fast asleep.  I woke up and I
saw you sleeping deep in my
heart.
My love, you hide your love.  I hope the
dream I had never haunts you.
My heart is telling you how much I love you
.  That means when I die,
the person I love will have
so much more.  So, have you decided whether to
urge yourself to die and whether
death will bring you what you
desire?  Do you see?
When we're feeling sad,
we understand very deeply those who
empathize with us.  Do you sometimes find that
you empathize with something, that
you truly understand it?  It's very understandable
when you have someone who empathizes, or two people who
empathize.  This song
is a very empathetic friend to
those who are heartbroken
.  And no one can
empathize with someone heartbroken like
this song.  No one else could share and empathize with
that feeling.  But each sin opens a
path that leads people to death, my
friends.   There you go
.  There.  Why is there
so much suffering?  As for Buddhism,
she will elaborate on the spiritual aspect.
In Buddhist scriptures, there is a story that is told
.  During the time of the Buddha, when
he first
conceived the idea—that he could use the
Buddha's teachings, the true Dharma
of the Buddha—to govern the country, he wondered if he could do so.
So when the Buddha arose in that state,
an evil demon came and urged the Buddha, the
Venerable One, to rule the country.  In other words, they were
urging the Buddha to become
king and rule this country, to
bring the Buddha's teachings to govern the land
.  Then the Buddha replied, "Evil
demon, I already know about those things."   It's
impossible to govern a country using the true
teachings of Buddhism because not everyone
has faith, right?  Therefore,
the Buddha clearly understood that the Ksitigarbha Sutra is a sutra of the Great Vehicle
of Buddhism.  The Ksitigarbha Sutra
says this:
If we demon kings see someone harboring evil thoughts,
we will incite them to become even
more evil.
If we see someone with a kind heart,
we will strive to make that person even
kinder.  Therefore, the important thing is whether
we harbor evil thoughts or good thoughts.
In Buddhist scriptures, there are also sutras that say, "
This person wanted to woo the daughter
of the king of heaven, and he liked her."  But the
daughter of the king of heaven, though she liked him,
refused to accept the love of this celestial being
.  Then these celestial beings
took the sickle and used it to play the lute, playing it day
after day, causing all the
birds, animals, and creatures to feel sad.
That means feeling sad in accordance with this person's mood
.  When the Buddha heard about
this, he called this person over and
preached to him.  But then, after
repeated sermons, the
monk finally emerged from his troubled and sorrowful state of mind.  But he
still decided he would find another way to
win the heart of that celestial maiden, the daughter of God
.  There.  Therefore, once you
enter a state of sadness or frustration,
all the sadness
will attract you.  We
also have a poet named Han Mac Tu, who
wrote many
love poems, but in reality,
these love poems all stemmed from
his genuine love.  There.
Do you all agree?  Therefore, Han
Mac Tu easily empathized with the external world,
and could immediately convey emotions through any scene
.  That's it, every scene is included to create a
romantic atmosphere.  That's why they say, when you're
sad, you can never find joy in any scenery,
right kids?
Yes, everyone.
Dear teacher, I have
another question: When a person experiences heartbreak, a
breakup,
or divorce,
they will inevitably feel resentment,
sadness, and despair.
Sometimes, this feeling can worsen and even
lead them to act rashly.  So,
teacher, is there any way
I can suppress those sad feelings
so that I don't fall into
such a negative state?   My
friends,
when you find yourself in a situation where you're feeling
sad and depressed, you can't just
get out of it on your own.  I could
never escape.  If
you just leave it as it is, the
best thing to do is find
a friend to share it with.  Do you understand
this part?  Find a
friend to share your feelings with, because when you
share, your heart feels lighter.
Don't just sit there and
gaze at a flower.  Don't do that,
or if you just sit and think in one place, you
'll become depressed.  Therefore, we
should not live alone.  We have some
really sad news, and we need to find
someone to share it with
.  There, share it.  And in this sharing process,
you should take the initiative starting today.
I have some
very sad things happening, so please share them with me
in a positive way.  Do you understand?  That
means sharing in a positive way because
you're not in control at that moment.  I'm
completely dependent on my friend, but
I need to realize that I'm being
negative.  And now I have to ask my friend to
share this with me in a positive way.  So, now that
I've told you all this, does it make me feel a little
better?  That's very light
already.  There.  After you share
something, you will receive
feedback from the other person.  So when
you share like that, because you have someone
to listen to, you'll be able to understand
everything, you'll be able to tell them everything, both the
good and the bad, about the person you loved
.  But if there's no one
to listen to, then we're completely
focused on what others have already told
us.  Because when someone gives
you something, it resides in
your heart, and that gives rise to feelings of attachment and
regret.  Therefore, when you're consumed by
regret, you can only think of the good side
of the other person.  That's it, folks.  When you're consumed by
regret, you can only think of the good things
and can't possibly consider the
bad things the other person did to you.  For example, if the
other person could abandon you without a
second thought, without giving you a chance to explain yourself,
this person would never even consider
that possibility.  Because what I regret is
not the place where you
broke up, but the
beautiful images and beautiful memories.  So
when I feel sad, resentful, and regretful, I
completely remember that incident.  But
when I talk to you, I can
tell you everything from beginning to end, including the
reasons why we broke up.  Given all this and all
that, it will awaken you to the
negative things that your friend has
brought into your life.  Then we
can change direction.   Thank you,
ma'am.  Did you all listen to the
teacher's explanation?  Yes.  It's true
that when we're heartbroken,
we usually just want to be alone,
right?  Finding a quiet place to sit
alone, and that very solitude, can actually
harm oneself.  So, as
she just shared, do this: find a
close friend and share your feelings with
them honestly.  And
hopefully, the person you're sharing with will
listen in the way you've learned
today: listening with empathy
and listening actively so that you can both
identify the strengths and weaknesses
in your recent relationship and help each other
overcome this ordeal.
Yes.  Thank you, teacher.  Yes, now
I would like to address the second question
from question 1. Linh Linh sent in
asking, "Teacher, regarding the song '
Sad Sunday,' why do
so many people fall into depression and commit suicide after listening to it?"
So, is there any particular
cause that affects a person
's mind or thoughts,
leading them to commit suicide?
Dear friends, the reason that
led to my depression and
my suicidal thoughts was the inspiration
in this song.  In other words, the message
in this song perfectly reflects the feelings of
someone who's heartbroken.  and it
opens the way
for this person to die with the
thought that death will allow them to be close
to the one they love.  Now, I'm going to
let you know if, after I die, I'll be able to be
with the one I love
.  This part is entirely within the realm of
Buddhist teachings and the law of karma.  When two
people direct their hearts towards each other, only then can they be
together.  Do you agree
?
What about unrequited love? Can I still go and
sit next to the person I love?
I can never get close to my lover
.  So if I die, the
first thing that will happen is that my lover, who is still alive, will reject
me.  I'll never get close to
the person I love, guys.  That's an
element of the mind.
Its mind operates this cycle of reincarnation.
In Buddhism, the Buddha taught that
separation from loved ones brings suffering.  It means two people who love each other
but are separated, and that's why they suffer.
Then, resentment and suffering arose.  That means two
people who harbor resentment towards each other
still have to gather in one place to torment
each other.  There you go.  Therefore, in that kind of
love, if two people
separate and one of them dies, they will
never meet again.  While we're still
alive, we can see each other, but once we're dead,
we won't be able to meet them again.  Okay, that's it
.  So remember,
this song isn't true.  Once they die, the
two of them will never see
each other again.  That means we've completely lost our
connection, guys.  Their
connection may end in this lifetime, but in
many lifetimes to come, they may never have had the chance to
experience love.  Because they've rejected
each other.  Remember, rejecting
someone without any compassion is the
best thing to do. When
someone rejects you, you know that
your connection with that person is over forever
.  Only in countless eons in the future will we
have the opportunity to meet again.  So don't try to hold on
because the relationship is over.  Don't be
sad because of them, because their time with you is over
.  Let's go find our
destined love with new people.
She also advised that when you listen to
this song, you will understand
that.  Hopefully, everyone will know about Buddhism,
understand karma, and if
they do, they will never fall into this situation
.
I sincerely thank you, teacher.  Her house
has shared
[music]